Today we're going
to learn how to get information
about the technologies used by the target website.
So we're going to use a website called Netcraft
and I'm gonna put my target here and as you can see,
I already put it there, isecurity.org.
So, I'm just gonna hit enter and again,
first of all you'll see some basic information,
such as the website title,
the description, the key words
and when the website was created.
Scrolling down, you'll see the website itself,
the domain name, the IP address,
just like we've seen in the previous video,
the domain registerer,
so the company who registered the domain
for us, for iSecurity
and you'll also see information about the organization.
An here, you can't see it for this example
because iSecurity is using privacy protection,
but usually you'll be able to see it
and see more information.
We can also see that it's hosted in Netherlands.
We can see the name server,
which is dimofinf.net.
And again, if you just got to dimofinf.net,
you'll discover that this is a website for web hosting,
so we know this is a web hosting company.
In worst case scenarios,
we can use this or try to hack into Dimofinf itself
to gain access to iSecurity.
Scrolling down, you'll see history of the hosting companies
that iSecurity used
and we can see that the latest one is this one.
And it's running on Linux with Apache.
Same server that we see in the previous video, 2.3.31
with Unix mod_ssl and all the other items.
Again, this is very important to find vulnerabilities
and exploits on our target computer.
In the Security section,
you'll see if the website has any spam
and you can see that it doesn't really have any spam.
Scrolling down on the Web Trackers,
it'll show you the third party resources
or applications used on our target.
So we can see that our target uses Google Analytics,
Googlecdn, and other Google services.
So this could also help us to find or gain access
to the target computer.
The technologies is one of the most important tabs,
or sections, in here
'cause it shows us the technologies used
on the target website.
So we can see it's using Apache web server,
we already know that.
On Server-Side, we can see that the website uses PHP,
so this means the website can run,
can understand and run PHP code.
This is very important because in the future,
if we manage to run any kind of code on our target,
then we know this code should be sent as PHP code.
So if we're creating payloads in Metasploit
or even Veil-Evasion,
we should create them in PHP format
and the target website will be able to run them
because it can support PHP.
On the Client-Side,
we can see that the website supports JavaScript
so if run JavaScript or if you manage
to run JavaScript code on the website,
it's not going to be executed on the website.
It'll be executed on the users who see the website
because JavaScript is a client-side language
and PHP is a server-side.
So if we manage to run PHP code,
it'll be executed on the server itself.
If you manage to run JavaScript,
it's gonna be executed on the users
or the people who visit the website.
Same here with jQuery,
this is just a framework for JavaScript.
Scrolling down, we can see that the website uses WordPress.
This is very important.
So Netcraft will also show you any web applications
being used on the website.
So WordPress is just a web application,
so you can see other examples in your case.
And it's a open-source web application
that a lot of other websites might have.
The good thing about this is you can go and find exploits
or vulnerabilities within this web application.
If you are lucky enough to find an existing one,
then you can go ahead and exploit it on the target website.
So for example, we have WordPress in our example
and I'm gonna go to Exploit Database.
And if we go on the search here,
so I'm just gonna type in WordPress here.
And I'm gonna say I'm not a robot.
Then we're going to search.
And as you can see,
we managed to find a lot of exploits related to WordPress.
Now these are related to different versions of WordPress
so you need to make sure that you have the same version
on your target.
And we'll have examples to see how
to use exploits like these,
but it just shows you how powerful information gathering is.
Again going down, you can see that the website uses cPanel.
This is another web application.
It's a hosting control panel.
Again, you can go on Exploit Database
and see if you can find any vulnerabilities
or exploits related to it.
And you can also find other information
such as that the website uses HTML5, uses CSS,
and all that kind of stuff.
So Netcraft is really useful.
From it we managed to know that the website runs PHP,
it runs JavaScript,
it uses WordPress,
so we can use WordPress to hack into the website,
and cPanel.
And we can also, if we go up,
we also manage to know the web hosting,
or even we found out in the previous video,
that Dimofinf is the web hosting company of this website,
so in worst case scenarios,
we can try to hack into that web hosting
and gain access to our target website.